#!/usr/bin/env less


What is this SRV library about?

	Name servers are able to specify services of a domain in a way superior
	to current practice (using only A, CNAME and MX records). Services are
	formulated in so-called SRV records. These are hard to use in your
	networking clients and servers, but not with this library!


Why are SRV records any good?

	They solve many problems on the Internet of today:
	 * SRV records offer load balancing solutions
	 * SRV records offer fallback options when servers fail (!)
	 * SRV records avoid that you need to type twice: http:// and www.
	 * SRV records redirect services to _any_ port you like, on any host

	Imagine this... normally running an Internet phone server at home,
	but overriding it with the server at work while you are logged in.
	When logged out at work, your home server acts as the fallback server
	and takes all messages for you.

	Imagine this... the trustworthiness of email, also made available
	for the world wide web!


So SRV records are complex; is programming them harder?

	No. Socket programming is hell, and it's usually not even done well.
	This library takes all that trouble away from you. Just invoke

	int sox=insrv_client ("http", "tcp", "dns.vanrein.org", NULL, 0, NULL)

	to obtain a socket for a TCP/IP connection to the web server for
	dns.vanrein.org. The server side looks the same, by the way, but you
	will have to accept() the sequence of requests coming in.

	Example code is provided, by the way.


Can my domain specify SRV records and older stuff?

	Yes, no problem.


Can I use an old-fashioned browser/... to access an SRV domain?

	Yes, if the domain offers both styles, which is never a problem.


Can I still access SRV-less domains with your SRV library?

	Yes, there is a fallback program. If no SRV records are found, it
	will lookup a wellknown port number for the requested service on
	the domain name, and if that fails, on the domain name prefixed with
	the service name.


Who made it and why?

	The library was made by Rick van Rein <rick@vanrein.org> and he wrote
	it because he wanted a more mature Internet. And because, to his
	startlement, there seemed to be no solutions for SRV records anywhere
	at all (or at least not freely available)!


Does my name server support them already?

	It should. All modern BIND name servers do. To be precise, BIND version
	4.9.5 started supporting them.


Does my domain already support these SRV records?

	Probably not. Hardly any do. There is a fight still to be fought here.
	Inform your sysadmin if you see a chance! Or, if you _are_ the
	sysadmin, add these records to your domains! If you are a hosting
	solution, make sure you add support for these SRV records as soon as
	possible.
